business units in IKEA

Ingka Group (Ingka Holding B.V. and its controlled entities) is one of 11 different groups 
of companies that own and operate IKEA retail under franchise agreements with Inter IKEA Systems B.V. 
Ingka Group has three business areas: IKEA Retail, Ingka Investments and Ingka Centres. 
Ingka Group is a strategic partner in the IKEA franchise system, operating 367 IKEA 
stores in 30 countries. These IKEA stores had 838 million visits during financial year 2018 and 
2.35 billion visits to www.IKEA.com. Ingka Group operates business under the IKEA vision – to create a 
better everyday life for the many people by offering a wide range of well-designed, functional home 
furnishing products at prices so low that as many people as possible can afford it.​

Despite its Swedish roots, IKEA is owned and operated by a complicated array of not-for-profit
 and for-profit corporations.

The IKEA corporate structure is divided into two main parts: operations and franchising. 
Most of IKEA’s operations, including the management of the majority of its stores, 
the design and manufacture of its furniture, and purchasing and supply functions are 
overseen by INGKA Holding, a private, for-profit Dutch company. 
Of the IKEA stores in 36 countries, 235 are run by the INGKA Holding. 
The remaining 30 stores are run by franchisees outside of the INGKA Holding.

INGKA Holding is not an independent company, 
but is wholly owned by the Stichting Ingka Foundation, 
which Kamprad established in 1982 in the Netherlands as a tax-exempt, 
not-for-profit foundation. The Ingka Foundation is controlled by a five-member 
executive committee that is chaired by Kamprad and includes his wife and attorney

While most IKEA stores operate under the direct purview of Ingka Holding and the Ingka Foundation, 
the IKEA trademark and concept is owned by an entirely separate Dutch company, 
Inter IKEA Systems. Every IKEA store, including those run by Ingka Holding, 
pays a franchise fee of 3% of the revenue to Inter IKEA Systems. 
The ownership of Inter IKEA Systems is exceedingly complicated.